Add documentation for kotlin dataclass mongodb (#6877)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/mongodb-panache.adoc

====

`ObjectId` can be difficult to use if you want to expose its value in your REST service.

> So we created JSON-B and Jackson providers to serialize/deserialize them as a `String` which are automatically registered if your project depends on one of the RESTEasy with JSON-B or RESTEasy with Jackson extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we created JSON-B and Jackson providers to serialize/deserialize them as a `String` which are automatically registered if your project depends on either the RESTEasy JSON-B extension or the RESTEasy Jackson extension.
```

== Working with Kotlin Data classes

> Kotlin data classes are very practical to defines data carrier classes, so they are a perfect match for an entity class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kotlin data classes are very convenient way to define data carrier classes, making them a great match to define an entity class.
```

> Kotlin data classes are very convenient way to define data carrier classes, making them a great match to define an entity class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kotlin data classes are a very convenient way of defining data carrier classes, making them a great match to define an entity class.
```

> But this type of class comes with some limitations: all fields needs to be initialized at construction time or be marked at nullable,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But this type of class comes with some limitations: all fields needs to be initialized at construction time or be marked as nullable,
```

> and the generated constructor need to have as parameters all the fields of the data class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and the generated constructor needs to have as parameters all the fields of the data class.
```

> MongoDB with Panache uses the PojoCodec, this MongoDB codec mandate the presence of an empty (no parameter) constructor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MongoDB with Panache uses the PojoCodec, this MongoDB codec mandates the presence of an empty (no parameter) constructor.
```

> MongoDB with Panache uses the PojoCodec, this MongoDB codec mandates the presence of an empty (no parameter) constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MongoDB with Panache uses the `PojoCodec`, a MongoDB codec which mandates the presence of a parameterless constructor.
```

> So, if you want to use a data class for an entity class, you need a way to have Kotlin generates an empty constructor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, if you want to use a data class as an entity class, a way is needed to make Kotlin generate an empty constructor.
```

Reviewer 2: Have you perhaps also tried the Kotlin `no-arg` compiler plugin?

Author: No, I can ask to test it on the original issue.

> Therefore, if you want to use a data class as an entity class, a way is needed to make Kotlin generate an empty constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, if you want to use a data class as an entity class, you need a way to make Kotlin generate an empty constructor.
```

> To do so, you need to provide default values for all fields of your classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, you need to provide default values for all the fields of your classes.
```

> The following sentence from the Kotlin documentation explain this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sentence from the Kotlin documentation explains it:
```

> __On the JVM, if the generated class needs to have a parameterless constructor, default values for all properties have to be specified (see Constructors).__

Reviewer 3: A link to the doc maybe?

Reviewer 2: Yes, we absolutely should have a link. Also, are you sure this work in native?

Author: > are you sure this work in native
The pojo codec works in native, and all classes are register for reflection so I don't see why it will not works in native. I can ask  for tests on the original issue report.

Reviewer 2: The reason I am asking is because I have seen some weird deserilization behavior in #3954 with data classes that only occurs in native mode.

Author: The native issue you referes to seems to be more on GraalVM side than on Kotin/Mongodb/Quarkus side ... Maybe someone from GraalVM can have a look at a support on GraalVM for kotlin data classes.

Reviewer 2: Yeah probably. I haven't had time to really dig into it yet or talk to the Kotlin folks first to get their opinion.
Once I do that I'll have a better understanding and then we'll be able to proceed further

> If it's not something you want to do, there are two solutions to workaround this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If for whatever reason the aforementioned solution is deemed unacceptable, there are alternatives
```

> If for whatever reason the aforementioned solution is deemed unacceptable, there are alternatives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If for whatever reason, the aforementioned solution is deemed unacceptable, there are alternatives.
```

> First solution, you can create a BSON Codec, it will be automatically registered by Quarkus and will be used instead of the PojoCodec.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firstly, you can create a BSON Codec, it will be automatically registered by Quarkus and will be used instead of the PojoCodec.
```

> Firstly, you can create a BSON Codec which will be automatically registered by Quarkus and will be used instead of the PojoCodec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you can create a BSON Codec which will be automatically registered by Quarkus and will be used instead of the `PojoCodec`.
```

> See this part of the documentation: link:mongodb#simplifying-mongodb-client-usage-using-bson-codec[Using BSON codec]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See this part of the documentation: link:mongodb#simplifying-mongodb-client-usage-using-bson-codec[Using BSON codec].
```

> Second solution, you can use the `@BsonCreator` annotation to tell the PojoCodec to use the Kotlin data class default constructor,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Secondly, you can use the `@BsonCreator` annotation to tell the PojoCodec to use the Kotlin data class default constructor,
```

> Secondly, you can use the `@BsonCreator` annotation to tell the PojoCodec to use the Kotlin data class default constructor,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option is to use the `@BsonCreator` annotation to tell the `PojoCodec` to use the Kotlin data class default constructor,
```

> in this case all constructor parameters needs to be annotated with `@BsonProperty`: link:{mongodb-doc-root-url}/bson/pojos/#supporting-pojos-without-no-args-constructors[Supporting pojos without no args constructor]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in this case all constructor parameters have  to be annotated with `@BsonProperty`: link:{mongodb-doc-root-url}/bson/pojos/#supporting-pojos-without-no-args-constructors[Supporting pojos without no args constructor]
```

> in this case all constructor parameters have  to be annotated with `@BsonProperty`: link:{mongodb-doc-root-url}/bson/pojos/#supporting-pojos-without-no-args-constructors[Supporting pojos without no args constructor]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in this case all constructor parameters have to be annotated with `@BsonProperty`: see link:{mongodb-doc-root-url}/bson/pojos/#supporting-pojos-without-no-args-constructors[Supporting pojos without no args constructor].
```

> Following is the Person class as a Kotlin data class:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See an example of the Person class as a Kotlin data class:
```

> See an example of the Person class as a Kotlin data class:

Reviewer: An example of a `Person` class defined as a Kotlin data class would look like:

Author: Thanks, it's easier to me :)
